# A Decentralized Mining Pool
Mining pools are a popular way for individual miners to collectively contribute their computational resources to mine cryptocurrency more efficiently.
Miners in a pool work together to solve the puzzle that
blockchains introduce and share the resulting block
reward, which as a result increases their chances of
finding a valid block and earning a reward.
The concept of mining pools allows all pool participants, even with low mining power, to attempt to
mine a block. The revenues generated by the pool are
distributed among members by the pool manager and
each member receives rewards based on the amount
of work they performed. More precisely, miners submit to the pool manager hashes of near blocks that
they computed, which are named shares. In this way,
miners are rewarded accordingly to the shares they
submitted.
Although mining pools make the mining process
more predictable and incentivize small miners to participate, they introduce centralization, in the sense
that revenues generated by mining a block are sent
to a key owned by the pool manager, who is then responsible for distributing the rewards. In this way,
mining pools violate the decentralization principle of
blockchain technology as miners should trust the pool
manager that the revenues would be fairly shared
among members.
In this project
, we propose a solution that leverages smart contracts in order to fairly distribute the
revenues from mining a block among the members
of a mining pool. By leveraging Ethereum smart
contracts, trust is promoted among the pool members as they can be sure that the revenues generated
by the pool, will be shared accordingly to the number of shares they submitted. Smart contracts are
immutable, meaning that a miner cannot alter the
shares of another one and transparent, as they define the rules of how the rewards will be distributed,
which are visible to all participants.


You can view more details about the project here:
[A_decentralized_mining_pool.pdf](https://github.com/sissyp/ADecentralizedMiningPool/files/11032028/A_decentralized_mining_pool.pdf)
